# Welcome to use the hiring system!

##  Getting started.

​	When you run the program for the first time, the program initially contains no information. To get started you need to signed up as applicant, HR manager, or interviewer. Before you sign up as a HR manager or an interviewer, make sure that you have selected a corresponding company, or create a new one and select it if you want(For the purpose of Phase 1, you can just create one company); otherwise you will not be able to successfully sign up. After you enter a username and username, click `sign up` button. If clicking the button does not work, then it may mean that the username has already been taken. You can sign up without any password if you want, but you have to enter a username.

The system state information will be stored in the file named **auto.ser**, and there will be a file **log.txt** to record the important event that took place in the system.

NOTE: On the teaching lab machine, when you run the program at the first place, there may be some display issue. Just adjust the size of the window or click outside the GUI window will fix the problem.

### Use as an applicant

 If you sign in as an applicant, you can see a menu at the left of the window. 


1. If you click the `Document` option, you will be led to a window where you can see all your documents(Cover Letter; CV). If you do not upload documents, you can click the button with text `Cover Letter` and `CV` to upload the corresponding document, then you will see a window where you can select a file. You can also update the document that you have already upload, to do that, you need to first select the document you want to update, click `remove` to remove the current document, and the upload the one you want. You can upload at most only 1 cover letter and 1 CV to the system.
2. If you click the `Job Posting` option, you will see a list of  all the job postings that are in the system. When you select a certain job posting, you will see the name of the company the job belongs to, the time period during which the job posting will stay open, the description of the posting, number of positions available, and the status(OPEN, CLOSE, FILLED, UNFILLED) of each job posting. OPEN means that the job posting is still accepting new applications, CLOSED means that the job posting no long accepts new applicants. FILLED means that someone has already been hired for the job, and UNFILLED means that the hiring cycle for the job posting has ended, but there is not enough number of hired candidates to fill all the positions. You can only apply for the jobs with the status OPEN.
3. If you click `Application` option, you will see a list of all the job applications that you have made. When you click on a certain job application to select it, you can see the status of the job posting. If you just applied the job but have not undergone any interviews, you will see `Submitted` as your application status. Otherwise, you will see the sequences of interviews that you have completed. If you double-click any application, you can see the documents that you submitted to apply for the job. You can select an application and click `withdraw` button to withdraw the application if you want. Please note that you can only do that if the status of the job is neither **FILLED** nor **UNFILLED**.
4. If you click `History` option, you will see a window showing your **profile** including:

  1. Your username and real name.
  2.  The date when you signed up and create your account.
  3. The number of days since the date when your last application is closed. If some of the job postings that you are currently applying are still open, or you have not submitted any applications yet, this piece of information will appear to be `None`. Note that after all the job postings you have applied are closed, if you withdraw the application for the job posting with the latest closing date, the days information here will stay unchanged. Additionally, if you withdraw all your applications for the job postings that are still open, the information might change correspondingly to show the proper days since the last application closure date. Also please note that 30 days after the closure of your last application, your documents will be automatically deleted from the system; if you want to apply subsequent jobs in the future, you need to upload proper documents again. (Please refer to item 1 for uploading documents)
  4. The jobs postings you are applying and have applied. The **applying** jobs posting are the ones that you applied that is neither **FILLED** nor **UNFILLED**. The **applied** jobs postings including the ones that you have applied but finally withdrawn, and the ones that has been listed as **FILLED** or **UNFILLED**.


### Use it as an HR manager

 If you sign in as an HR manager, the operations that you can perform are:
1. If you click the `View all applicants` option, you will see a list of all the applicants in the system. And if you select a certain applicant, you can see his/her documents and applied jobs in your own company. Just use the tab to obtain the information you want.
2. If you click `Job Postings` option, you will see a list of all the job postings in your company and their current status. And when you click on each individual job posting, you will call up a list of all the applicant in the system that is currently applying for the posting; and if you double-click each applicant, you will see the application of this applicant for the posting(including the documents the applicant associated with the posting). Additionally, if you see a job posting whose status is listed as `FILLED`, you can double-click the job posting, then you will see a window showing the name of applicant(s) getting hired, in the format of: [real name (username)]. Note that only the HR that creates the job posting can assign interviews for the posting and see the list of Final Candidates for it (Please refer to 5 below).
3. If you click `Create job posting` option, you will be able to create new job postings by specifying the title, open date, closed date, the number of applicants needed for the job posting(For the purpose of Phase 1, please always enter `1` in this field.), and specify the requirements(CV, Cover Letters, etc.) and the description of the job. When the job posting is closed, it will be your responsibility to match interviewers in your company with the applicants for the job posting. Please note that, since in this system you can set a system time, please do make sure that you set the start date to be the current system time, otherwise some unexpected behavior might occur. Please refer to **Setting system time** section below to see more details about setting the time.
4. If you click `Assign Interview` option, you will see the list of interviews for which you are responsible for matching interviewers and applicants. You will see two columns of interviews, the interviews that have just started(New Interviews) and the interviews that have already finished some rounds (In Progress). After selecting an interview, you will be led to the window where you can match interviewers and applicants in groups; use `Add Group` button and `Remove Group` button to adjust the number of groups you want to assign, and just double-click applicants and interviewers to add them to or remove them from a group. Each group must have one and only one interviewer, and it is not required that you select all the interviewers you see in the window. However, before clicking `Submit` button to finish the interview assignment, please make sure that you have already assigned all the applicants to some group; then you can click `Submit` and then the interviewers can see the applicants that they are responsible for interviewing.
5. If you click `Final Candidates` button, in `Job Postings` column you will see all the job postings created by you where the interviews are all over, but there is still more applicants in the applicant pool that the number needed. In this case, you will have to select some applicants to decide which person will get hired. Just double-click the applicant you want to choose to move it to `final selections`, and if you want to change your mind before clicking `hire`, just double-click the applicant in the `final selections` section to de-select. For the purpose of Phase 1, you can choose at most one applicant for each job posting. Please note that it is feasible to choose none of the applicants in the `final selections`, and in this case the corresponding job posting will be listed as **UNFILLED**. 


### Use as an interviewer

​		 If you sign in as an interviewer, you will see a list of interview groups for job postings that you are assigned by the HR managers in your company. Upon clicking on a job posting, you will see a list of applicants that you will be interviewing; you can click `View applicant` after selecting an applicant to see their documents associated with the job application; if you want to forward an applicant to the next round of the interview, just check the box next to the name of the applicant; otherwise, leave the box next to the applicant unchecked. When you have made your final decision, click `Submit` button and then your decision will be recorded in the system.


#### Special Cases about hiring

​	Interviewers will determine which applicants will be forwarded to the next round of the interviews for a certain job posting. When the number of applicants getting **forwarded** equal to the number of applicant needed (For the purpose of Phase 1, the number is always equal to 1), the applicant will automatically be hired and the job posting will be listed as **FILLED**. But there are some special possible cases in the hiring cycle.
The possible special cases for Phase 1 are:

1. After a certain round of interview, no one got forwarded to the next round; in this case, the job posting will be automatically listed as **UNFILLED**. 
2. During the process of the interview, someone withdrew the application, resulting in only one applicant in the current applicant pool. In this case, the person remaining will be automatically hired, and the job posting will be listed as ,**FILLED** the current round of interview will terminate, and it becomes impossible for the remaining person to withdraw the application from this job posting.
3. The maximum of rounds of interviews has reached and there is still multiple applicants getting forwarded, resulting in a `Final Candidates` list that can be seen by the corresponding HR; after that, some applicants withdrew the application, resulting in only one applicant in the Final Candidates list. In this case, the remaining applicant will be automatically hired and the job posting is listed as `FILLED`, but the HR can still see the Final Candidates list with only one applicant in it; however, it is not possible to select the applicant and click `Hire` since the applicant has already been hired.  When you sign in as HR and see a Final Candidates list with only one applicant, just leave it as it is, and the applicant you see is just the one who got hired. Furthermore, it will become impossible for the remaining applicant to withdraw the application.
4. Only one person applied for the job posting. In this case, the applicant will not be automatically hired. The HR manager creating the job posting will still need to match the applicant with an interviewer, and if the interviewer forwards the applicant to the next round, the applicant will get hired and the job posting will be listed as **FILLED**; otherwise, the job posting will be listed as **UNFILLED**.
5. No one applies for a job posting by the time it closes. In this case, HR manager creating the job posting can just assign an interview group with no applicants to an interviewer. Then after the interviewer sees the `empty group` and click `submit` button without checking any applicants(The interviewer has no more choices), the job will be listed as **UNFILLED**.

## Details for setting the system time

​	Before logging in, you can click the ``Set Time` button in the login menu to set the system time. If you do not set the system time before logging in, the system time will just be the real time. If you set the time, make sure that you do not set the system time to be before the real time, and once you have set the system time, make sure that you do not set the system time back, otherwise there may be some unexpected behaviors.

And if you sign in as an applicant and then you apply for multiple job postings with different closing days, especially if you apply for a job posting with a later closing date before one with an earlier closing date, then, in order to see the functionality of showing the days since the last application closed and automatically deleting the document, please make sure you set the system time forward in a **day-by-day** manner. That is, if today is July 13, and you want to forward the system time from July 13 to July 20, set the system time to be July 13, July 14, July 15, ... , July 20 step by step, instead of directly setting the system time to be July 20. Otherwise you may not be able to see the correct behaviour. 
